# CAIT

Community for AI Teachers (pronounced as "kite") is an online sharing platform fitted for the use case of sharing
educational materials between machine learning teachers/lecturers.

## Installation

This README will give information on how to install and run CAIT locally. We provide tutorial on how to do it using
the nix package manager to simplify the managing of dependencies drastically.

### Preface

First, clone the repository locally.
```bash
git clone git@gitlab.ewi.tudelft.nl:cse2000-software-project/2023-2024/cluster-d/03d/ml-teachers.git
```

After this, download


### Using the provided nix shell (recommended)

Nix is a declarative package manager that allows for easily defining reproducible builds. We provide a `shell.nix` file 
that defines the environment needed to run CAIT. To use it, you need to have Nix installed on your system. 
You can install Nix by executing the commands described in [their manual](https://nixos.org/download/).

After installing Nix, you can enter the nix shell by running the following command:

```bash
nix-shell shell.nix
```

This will spawn a new shell with all the dependencies needed to run CAIT (including docker and docker-compose).

### Using an imperative package manager (or running in windows) (not recommended)

[//]: # (TODO)

### Running the application

First, make sure all the dependencies are installed and the correct prisma client is generated by running the following 
command:

```bash
npm run setup
```

After this, you can run the application by executing the following command:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Make sure you are running this command in the same shell where you entered the nix shell.

### Common pitfalls and solutions

- If you are already hosting a Postgres database on your computer on port 5432, you will need to stop it before 
running the application.
- Make sure you have docker running on your computer. 
